README.md, before:

# Wasm Doom

This is a [Chocolate Doom][1] WebAssembly port with WebSockets [support][4].

## Requirements

Start a nix shell or use nix-direnv to get the required dependencies.

```
nix develop
```

## Compiling

There are two scripts to facilitate compiling Wasm Doom:

```
./scripts/clean.sh
./scripts/build.sh
```

## Running

Copy the shareware version of [doom1.wad][3] to [./src][9] (make sure it has the name doom1.wad)

Then:

```
curl https://distro.ibiblio.org/slitaz/sources/packages/d/doom1.wad -o src/doom1.wad
simple-http-server -i src
```

Then open your browser and point it to http://0.0.0.0:8000/

Doom should start (local mode, no network). Check [doom-workers][8] if you want to run multiplayer locally.

Inspect [src/index.html][6] for startup details.

Check our live multiplayer [demo][5] and [blog post][7].

## stdout procotol

To show important messages coming from the game while it's running we send the following formatted stdout messages, which can be parsed in the web page running the wasm:

```
doom: 1, failed to connect to websockets server
doom: 2, connected to %s
doom: 3, we're out of client addresses
doom: 4, ws error(eventType=%d, userData=%d)
doom: 5, ws close(eventType=%d, wasClean=%d, code=%d, reason=%s, userData=%d)
doom: 6, failed to send ws packet, reconnecting
doom: 7, failed to connect to %s
doom: 8, uid is %d
doom: 9, disconnected from server
doom: 10, game started
doom: 11, entering fullscreen
doom: 12, client '%s' timed out and disconnected
```

## License

Chocolate Doom and this port are distributed under the GNU GPL. See the COPYING file for more information.

[1]: https://github.com/chocolate-doom/chocolate-doom
[2]: https://emscripten.org/
[3]: https://doomwiki.org/wiki/DOOM1.WAD
[4]: src/net_websockets.c
[5]: https://silentspacemarine.com
[6]: src/index.html
[7]: https://blog.cloudflare.com/doom-multiplayer-workers
[8]: https://github.com/cloudflare/doom-workers
[9]: src

Commit message:

add instructions for building with nix

README.md, after:

# Wasm Doom

This is a [Chocolate Doom][1] WebAssembly port with WebSockets [support][4].

## Requirements

Start a nix shell or use nix-direnv to get the required dependencies.

```
nix develop
```

## Building assets using nix:

```
nix build .#doom-wasm

This will create a result symlink including all assets except the WAD file except the WAD file.
```

## Compiling

There are two scripts to facilitate compiling Wasm Doom:

```
./scripts/clean.sh
./scripts/build.sh
```

## Running

Copy the shareware version of [doom1.wad][3] to [./src][9] (make sure it has the name doom1.wad)

Then:

```
curl https://distro.ibiblio.org/slitaz/sources/packages/d/doom1.wad -o src/doom1.wad
simple-http-server -i src
```

Then open your browser and point it to http://0.0.0.0:8000/

Doom should start (local mode, no network). Check [doom-workers][8] if you want to run multiplayer locally.

Inspect [src/index.html][6] for startup details.

Check our live multiplayer [demo][5] and [blog post][7].

## stdout procotol

To show important messages coming from the game while it's running we send the following formatted stdout messages, which can be parsed in the web page running the wasm:

```
doom: 1, failed to connect to websockets server
doom: 2, connected to %s
doom: 3, we're out of client addresses
doom: 4, ws error(eventType=%d, userData=%d)
doom: 5, ws close(eventType=%d, wasClean=%d, code=%d, reason=%s, userData=%d)
doom: 6, failed to send ws packet, reconnecting
doom: 7, failed to connect to %s
doom: 8, uid is %d
doom: 9, disconnected from server
doom: 10, game started
doom: 11, entering fullscreen
doom: 12, client '%s' timed out and disconnected
```

## License

Chocolate Doom and this port are distributed under the GNU GPL. See the COPYING file for more information.

[1]: https://github.com/chocolate-doom/chocolate-doom
[2]: https://emscripten.org/
[3]: https://doomwiki.org/wiki/DOOM1.WAD
[4]: src/net_websockets.c
[5]: https://silentspacemarine.com
[6]: src/index.html
[7]: https://blog.cloudflare.com/doom-multiplayer-workers
[8]: https://github.com/cloudflare/doom-workers
[9]: src
